README.md, before:

# MLOps-ETF-PEA

**Project:** MLOps pipeline to predict ETF daily returns and assess probability of reaching PEA annual thresholds using ML.

---

## 📊 Problem Description

This project addresses **retail investor challenges** in estimating if an ETF can meet the **PEA (Plan d'Epargne en Actions) yearly performance threshold** using historical data and ML models.

✅ **Pain points resolved:**

* Predict next-day ETF returns for decision support.
* Estimate probability of reaching user-defined thresholds.
* Automate pipeline for data ingestion, training, deployment, monitoring.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

* **ML**: scikit-learn, lightgbm
* **Tracking**: MLflow
* **Orchestration**: Prefect
* **Deployment**: FastAPI, Uvicorn
* **Monitoring**: Evidently
* **Infra**: Terraform, LocalStack (AWS emulation)
* **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
* **Tests**: pytest, unit tests
* **Lint/Format**: black, flake8, isort, pre-commit
* **Reproducibility**: requirements.txt, Makefile

---


## 📂 Repository Structure

* `notebooks/` : EDA, training (`02_train_model.ipynb`), prediction (`03_predict.ipynb`)
* `src/models/` : `train_model.py`, `predict.py`
* `src/pipeline/` : `prefect_flow.py` (workflow orchestration)
* `src/api/` : `main.py` (FastAPI deployment)
* `src/monitoring/` : `monitor.py` (monitoring pipeline)
* `infra/` : Terraform + LocalStack infra for emulated AWS S3
* `mlruns/` : MLflow runs and artifacts
* `.github/workflows/ci.yml` : CI/CD pipeline
* `Makefile`, `.pre-commit-config.yaml`, `requirements.txt`
* `tests/` : unit tests and pipeline tests

---
## 🖥️ System Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
  A[User requests prediction via API] --> B[FastAPI]
  B --> C[Prediction Script]
  C --> D[MLflow Registered Model]
  C --> E[Reads Features in Parquet]
  C --> F[Writes Predictions]

  G[Prefect ETL Flow] --> H[Feature Engineering]
  H --> E
  G --> I[Model Training]
  I --> D

  C --> J[Evidently Drift Monitoring]
```


---
## 🐳 Docker & LocalStack Setup
The project uses Docker and LocalStack to emulate AWS services locally.

**Prerequisites**
* Docker & docker-compose installed
* AWS CLI installed locally (or use the dockerized AWS CLI alternative)

**Install AWS CLI (if missing)**
```bash
pip install awscli
```
Or use your OS package manager.

**Running the stack**
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```
**Verify LocalStack S3**
```bash
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 s3 ls
```
If you don’t want to install AWS CLI locally, run:
```bash
docker run --rm -it amazon/aws-cli --endpoint-url=http://host.docker.internal:4566 s3 ls
```
> **Note:** On Linux, replace `host.docker.internal` by `localhost` if needed.

---
## 🚀 Quickstart

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Format, lint, test
make format
make lint
make test

# Launch LocalStack (AWS emulation)
make localstack-up

# ⚠️ Check LocalStack health
curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health

# ⚠️ Configure fake AWS credentials for LocalStack
aws configure
# Fill with:
# AWS Access Key ID: test
# AWS Secret Access Key: test
# Default region name: us-east-1
# Default output format: json

# Test LocalStack S3:
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 s3 ls

# Optional: run Prefect S3 test flow to validate your LocalStack + Prefect connection
python test_s3_flow.py

# Run Prefect pipeline
python src/pipeline/prefect_flow.py

# ⚠️ If you get "ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'src'"
export PYTHONPATH=.


# Launch API
uvicorn src.api.main:app --reload

# Run monitoring
python src/monitoring/monitor.py
```
> **Tip:** If you get `Could not connect to the endpoint URL: http://localhost:4566/`, try:

* **Using `http://host.docker.internal:4566` instead of `http://localhost:4566` on Linux/Windows.**

* **Ensuring LocalStack is running (`docker-compose up -d`) and healthy (`curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health`).**
---

## 🪜 Evaluation Grid Mapping

| Criteria                                   | Status                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Problem description**                    | ✅ Well described                                          |
| **Cloud**                                  | ✅ LocalStack + Terraform (IaC), partial cloud             |
| **Experiment tracking and model registry** | ✅ MLflow tracking + registry                              |
| **Workflow orchestration**                 | ✅ Prefect orchestration                                   |
| **Model deployment**                       | ✅ FastAPI local deployment, containerisable               |
| **Model monitoring**                       | ✅ Evidently for metrics monitoring                        |
| **Reproducibility**                        | ✅ requirements.txt, Makefile, pre-commit, clear structure |
| **Best practices**                         | ✅ Tests, CI/CD, linting, formatting, Makefile, pre-commit |
---
## 📈 Results

* Trained LightGBM model on ETF return features with MLflow.
* Automated retraining workflow via Prefect.
* Deployed local API for predictions.
* Monitoring pipeline for performance drift.
* Full reproducibility with CI/CD, tests, formatting enforced.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

```bash
# Format and check lint before push
make format
make lint
```

Contributions, issues and PRs welcome.

---

## 📬 Contact

**Yann Pham-Van**

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chasseur2valeurs/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/YannPhamVan)

---

## 🏁 Next improvements

✅ Containerize and deploy to cloud (AWS Lambda/Fargate).

✅ Add alert-based monitoring with Prefect triggers.

✅ Extend hyperparameter tuning workflows.

✅ Add Grafana dashboards if needed for advanced monitoring if needed.

---

**Ready for peer review 🚀**

This README aligns with the Zoomcamp evaluation grid and guides reviewers smoothly through setup, dev, infra, and testing.

Commit message:

docs: add Known Limitations section to README highlighting monitoring issue

README.md, after:

# MLOps-ETF-PEA

**Project:** MLOps pipeline to predict ETF daily returns and assess probability of reaching PEA annual thresholds using ML.

---

## 📊 Problem Description

This project addresses **retail investor challenges** in estimating if an ETF can meet the **PEA (Plan d'Epargne en Actions) yearly performance threshold** using historical data and ML models.

✅ **Pain points resolved:**

* Predict next-day ETF returns for decision support.
* Estimate probability of reaching user-defined thresholds.
* Automate pipeline for data ingestion, training, deployment, monitoring.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

* **ML**: scikit-learn, lightgbm
* **Tracking**: MLflow
* **Orchestration**: Prefect
* **Deployment**: FastAPI, Uvicorn
* **Monitoring**: Evidently
* **Infra**: Terraform, LocalStack (AWS emulation)
* **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
* **Tests**: pytest, unit tests
* **Lint/Format**: black, flake8, isort, pre-commit
* **Reproducibility**: requirements.txt, Makefile

---


## 📂 Repository Structure

* `notebooks/` : EDA, training (`02_train_model.ipynb`), prediction (`03_predict.ipynb`)
* `src/models/` : `train_model.py`, `predict.py`
* `src/pipeline/` : `prefect_flow.py` (workflow orchestration)
* `src/api/` : `main.py` (FastAPI deployment)
* `src/monitoring/` : `monitor.py` (monitoring pipeline)
* `infra/` : Terraform + LocalStack infra for emulated AWS S3
* `mlruns/` : MLflow runs and artifacts
* `.github/workflows/ci.yml` : CI/CD pipeline
* `Makefile`, `.pre-commit-config.yaml`, `requirements.txt`
* `tests/` : unit tests and pipeline tests

---
## 🖥️ System Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
  A[User requests prediction via API] --> B[FastAPI]
  B --> C[Prediction Script]
  C --> D[MLflow Registered Model]
  C --> E[Reads Features in Parquet]
  C --> F[Writes Predictions]

  G[Prefect ETL Flow] --> H[Feature Engineering]
  H --> E
  G --> I[Model Training]
  I --> D

  C --> J[Evidently Drift Monitoring]
```


---
## 🐳 Docker & LocalStack Setup
The project uses Docker and LocalStack to emulate AWS services locally.

**Prerequisites**
* Docker & docker-compose installed
* AWS CLI installed locally (or use the dockerized AWS CLI alternative)

**Install AWS CLI (if missing)**
```bash
pip install awscli
```
Or use your OS package manager.

**Running the stack**
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```
**Verify LocalStack S3**
```bash
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 s3 ls
```
If you don’t want to install AWS CLI locally, run:
```bash
docker run --rm -it amazon/aws-cli --endpoint-url=http://host.docker.internal:4566 s3 ls
```
> **Note:** On Linux, replace `host.docker.internal` by `localhost` if needed.

---
## 🚀 Quickstart

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Format, lint, test
make format
make lint
make test

# Launch LocalStack (AWS emulation)
make localstack-up

# ⚠️ Check LocalStack health
curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health

# ⚠️ Configure fake AWS credentials for LocalStack
aws configure
# Fill with:
# AWS Access Key ID: test
# AWS Secret Access Key: test
# Default region name: us-east-1
# Default output format: json

# Test LocalStack S3:
aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 s3 ls

# Optional: run Prefect S3 test flow to validate your LocalStack + Prefect connection
python test_s3_flow.py

# Run Prefect pipeline
python src/pipeline/prefect_flow.py

# ⚠️ If you get "ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'src'"
export PYTHONPATH=.


# Launch API
uvicorn src.api.main:app --reload

# Run monitoring
python src/monitoring/monitor.py
```
> **Tip:** If you get `Could not connect to the endpoint URL: http://localhost:4566/`, try:

* **Using `http://host.docker.internal:4566` instead of `http://localhost:4566` on Linux/Windows.**

* **Ensuring LocalStack is running (`docker-compose up -d`) and healthy (`curl http://localhost:4566/_localstack/health`).**
---

## 🪜 Evaluation Grid Mapping

| Criteria                                   | Status                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Problem description**                    | ✅ Well described                                          |
| **Cloud**                                  | ✅ LocalStack + Terraform (IaC), partial cloud             |
| **Experiment tracking and model registry** | ✅ MLflow tracking + registry                              |
| **Workflow orchestration**                 | ✅ Prefect orchestration                                   |
| **Model deployment**                       | ✅ FastAPI local deployment, containerisable               |
| **Model monitoring**                       | ✅ Evidently for metrics monitoring                        |
| **Reproducibility**                        | ✅ requirements.txt, Makefile, pre-commit, clear structure |
| **Best practices**                         | ✅ Tests, CI/CD, linting, formatting, Makefile, pre-commit |
---
## 📈 Results

* Trained LightGBM model on ETF return features with MLflow.
* Automated retraining workflow via Prefect.
* Deployed local API for predictions.
* Monitoring pipeline for performance drift.
* Full reproducibility with CI/CD, tests, formatting enforced.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

```bash
# Format and check lint before push
make format
make lint
```

Contributions, issues and PRs welcome.

---

## 📬 Contact

**Yann Pham-Van**

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chasseur2valeurs/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/YannPhamVan)

---

## ⚠️ Known Limitations

- The monitoring pipeline using Evidently is temporarily disabled due to an attribute error (`Context` object missing `target_name`).  
- This issue does not affect the core pipeline (data ingestion, training, prediction), which runs smoothly.  
- Fixing this is planned for a future update.

---

## 🏁 Next improvements

✅ Containerize and deploy to cloud (AWS Lambda/Fargate).

✅ Add alert-based monitoring with Prefect triggers.

✅ Extend hyperparameter tuning workflows.

✅ Add Grafana dashboards if needed for advanced monitoring if needed.

---

**Ready for peer review 🚀**

This README aligns with the Zoomcamp evaluation grid and guides reviewers smoothly through setup, dev, infra, and testing.
